***ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS BELOW***

What is a programming language?
Answer:A programming language is a formal language comprising a set of instructions that produce various kinds of output.

What is a JDK composed of? Define each components?
Answer:The JDK includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter (java), a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar), a documentation generator (javadoc), and some other development tools.

What is an IDE?
Answer: Integrated Development Environment, is a software application that combines all of the features and tools needed by a software developer.

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
Answer: IntelliJ , Eclipse, NetBeans.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer:Life cycle of a java program tells us what happens right from the point when we type source code in a text editor to the point that source code is converted into machine code.

What is a class?
Answer:is a object constructor, or a "blueprint" for creating objects.

What is an object?
Answer:Objects are created from templates known as classes, they have a state and behavior.

What is the entry point of an application?
Answer: entry point is where the first instructions of a program are executed, and where the program has access to command line arguments.

Why is the main() static?
Answer:Static methods take all the data from parameters and compute something from those parameters.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer:Object class is the root or superclass of the class hierarchy, which is present in java.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer:

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer: Path is used define where the system can find the executables, while classpath is used to specify the location .

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer:You cannot create an object of abstract class or interface since they are incomplete class, what we can do is implement a subclasses of abstract classes.

What is Access Modifier?
Answer: Public, Private and Protected.

What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer: Object Oriented Programming.
Encapsulation:is known as Data-Hidden,ensures that your data is hidden from external modification.
Abstraction:details of the programming codes are hidden away from the user, and only the essential things are displayed to the user.
Inheritance: ensures that codes are reused.
Polymorphism: existing in many forms. Variables, functions, and objects can exist in multiple forms.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer:namespace that organizes a set of related classes and interfaces,java compiler imports package internally by default.

What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer:stands for application programming interface,

Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer:java does not support multiple inheritances through classes but through the interfaces, we can use multiple inheritances .

What is method overloading and when does it happen?
Answer:Overloading occurs when two or more methods in one class have the same method name but different parameters

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer:is a problem that arises during the execution of a program.

What is static keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:indicates that the particular member belongs to a type itself, rather than to an instance of that type, and is mainly used for memory management.

What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:can be used while declaring an entity. Using the final keyword means that the value can't be modified in the future.

Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer:Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed. Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not. Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor?
Answer:is a special method that is used to initialize objects.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer:A class can have multiple constructors that differ in the number and/or type of their parameters.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer:All classes have at least one constructor. If a class does not explicitly declare any, the Java compiler automatically provides a no-argument constructor, called the default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in Java? When would we use it?
Answer: keyword refers to the current object in a method or constructor, use of the this keyword is to eliminate the confusion between class attributes and parameters with the same name

What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer: keyword refers to superclass (parent) objects, It is used to call superclass methods, and to access the superclass constructor.

What does JVM stand for?
Answer: Java virtual machine is a virtual machine that enables a computer to run Java programs .

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer: JAVA is platform-independent language, the JVM is platform-dependent. Different JVM is designed for different OS and byte code is able to run on different OS.

What version of Java are you using?
Answer:

What does JAR stand for?
Answer: Java Archive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer: JDK is a software development kit while JVM is an environment for executing bytecode.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer:JVM is an environment for executing bytecode. while JRE is a software bundle that allows Java program to run.

Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Answer: Compile time is when the program is compiled; runtime is when it executes.

What is heap?
Answer: heap is the area of memory used to store objects instantiated by applications running on the JVM.

How does Java manage its memory?
Answer: Java does memory management automatically. Java uses an automatic memory management system called a garbage collector.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer: strings are treated as objects, StringBuffer class is a thread-safe, mutable sequence of characters ,A string buffer is like a String, but can be modified.

What is Singleton class?
Answer: The singleton design pattern is used to restrict the instantiation of a class and ensures that only one instance of the class exists in the JVM.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer: Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream. Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer: While loop executes the code block only if the condition is True, while Do While loop, the condition is tested at the end of the loop.

What is Enum?
Answer: is a special "class" that represents a group of constants.

What is Iterator?
Answer: An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList.

Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer: Integer is an object which takes 128 bits while int is a primitive data type which takes 32 bytes.

Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer: string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in the String pool.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer: Constructor chaining is useful when you want to invoke multiple constructors, one after another, by initializing only one instance.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer: serial collector is a default copying collector,  while a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation.

What does JIT stands for?
Answer: Just-In-Time (JIT) compiler is a key component of the OpenJ9 VM that improves the performance of Java applications by compiling platform-neutral Java bytecode into native machine code at run time.

Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer: Java garbage collection is the process by which Java programs perform automatic memory management. Java programs compile to bytecode that can be run on a Java Virtual Machine.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer:

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer: The Heap Space contains all objects are created, but Stack contains any reference to those objects.

What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer: It allows an executing Java program to examine or "introspect" upon itself, and manipulate internal properties of the program.

What is multithreading in Java?
Answer: MULTITHREADING in Java is a process of executing two or more threads.

What is synchronization in Java?
Answer: Synchronization in java is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource.

What is a Framework?
Answer: frameworks are bodies of prewritten code used by developers to create apps using the Java programming language.

What are the testing Frameworks available in Java?
Answer:JBehave, JUnit, Serenity, TestNG.

What are jUnit and testNG?
Answer: Both Testng and Junit are Testing framework used for Unit Testing. TestNG is similar to JUnit. Few more functionalities are added to it that makes TestNG more powerful than JUnit.

What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer:  logical, constraint-based or preferential relationship between two activities or tasks such that the completion or the initiation.

What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer:  is the concept in which objects get other required objects from outside, Java class has a dependency on another class, if it uses an instance of this class.

Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer: Static binding uses Type information for binding while Dynamic binding uses Objects to resolve binding.